README.md, before:

# ✊ Hello, Ni Hao, Konnichiwa, Hallo, Salam, Azul, Salut 👋

## I am Amirouche Amazigh BOUBEKKI Je suis Amirouche Amazigh BOUBEKKI

**I am a software engineer, and script kid. Je suis ingenieur logiciel, et enfant du code.**

I am studying, and building software around Scheme implementations,
CPython, the web stack, embedded databases, and distributed systems. I
discovered the generic form of triplestores as known as Generic Tuple
Store (nstore, and vnstore) database while reverse engineering current
knowledge products, and those that will come. I live in France, and
work for a company specializing in knowledge management. My favorite
search engine is mojeek. I still emacs, and vim. I like
retrocomputing. I love italian ice-cream, my wife, and my kid.

J’étudie, et construit des logiciels aux sujets des implémentations de
Scheme, de CPython, de la stack web, des bases de données embarquées
et des systèmes distribués. J’ai découvert la forme générique des
triples stores (nstore, et vnstore) en étudiant la gestion des
connaissances d’aujourd’hui, et de demain. Je vie en France, je
travaille dans la gestion des connaissances. Mon moteur de recherche
préféré est mojeek. Je travaille avec emacs, et vim. Je m’intèresse au
vieux systèmes informatiques. J’aime la glace à l’italienne, mon
épouse et mon enfant.

Let’s agree that serif fonts do not always carry boring stuff. And have a taste of it:

> If a system must serve the creative spirit, it must be entirely
> comprehensible by a single individual. — smalltalkers

Another bite:

> Programming languages should be designed not by piling feature on
> top of feature, but by removing the weaknesses and restrictions that
> make additional features appear necessary. — schemers

- 📫 How to reach me: email
- ⚡ Fun fact: I have a beautiful, and awesome wife

Happy hacking!

Commit message:

Revise README with updated bio and skills
Updated personal introduction and expanded on software experience.

README.md, after:

# ✊ Hello, Namaste, Ni Hao, Konnichiwa, Hallo, Hola, Salam, Azul, Salut 👋

## I am Amirouche Amazigh BOUBEKKI Je suis Amirouche Amazigh BOUBEKKI

**I am a software engineer, and script kid. Je suis ingénieur logiciel, et enfant du code.**


I study and build software with Scheme — the programmers' programmer tool of choice, the programmable programming language, the wellspring of Kernel by John Nathan Shutt. My focus areas include the web stack, embedded databases, and distributed systems.

Beyond code, I navigate requirements gathering, product thinking, and the dialogue between stakeholders and systems.

The spaces where I have least experience are Android and iOS development, hardware development, video games, in particular OpenGL and Vulkan. I will not invent the next big machine learning algorithm, but I wield the weights on a daily basis. I am not a cryptographer, but I am not clueless either; I have dabbled with various protocols and algorithms. I started with Gentoo in 2002; nowadays my daily drivers are Alpine, Guix, and Ubuntu.

I discovered the generic form of triplestores also known as [Generic Tuple Store (nstore)](https://srfi.schemers.org/srfi-168/srfi-168.html) database while reverse engineering current knowledge products, and those that will come. I created last-hope (2016), [culturia](https://fr.wikiversity.org/wiki/Recherche:Pens%C3%A9es_Profondes_et_Dialogues_Pertinents) (2018), and [babelia](https://nlnet.nl/project/Babelia/) (January 2022) as convo-based knowledge exploration tools, when nobody cared about chatbots. I maintain the Wikipedia article on 'Ordered Key-Value Store', the minimal and versatile programmable storage system paradigm.

I live in France, and work for a company specializing in knowledge management. My favorite search engine is Mojeek. I still Emacs and Vim. I can demonstrate soft skills and do pair-programming on VS Code. I like retrocomputing. I love Italian ice-cream, my wife, and my kid.

My current focus is [bb.py](https://github.com/amirouche/bb.py), a multilingual Python function pool — built through vibe coding.

Let’s agree that serif fonts do not always carry boring stuff. And have a taste of it:

> If a system must serve the creative spirit, it must be entirely
> comprehensible by a single individual. — smalltalkers

Another bite:

> Programming languages should be designed not by piling feature on
> top of feature, but by removing the weaknesses and restrictions that
> make additional features appear necessary. — schemers

- 📫 How to reach me: email
- ⚡ Fun fact: I have a beautiful, and awesome wife

Happy hacking!
